so I would drink a lot of alcohol before
he went onstage
I've actually never done a show without
doing them and I've spent a lot of time
wondering if I was ever gonna get on
stage again yeah so being from Wales I
think we always knew we didn't wanna
sleep at some point I put some songs up
on MySpace and they got heard by a
record label I signed this record deal I
was too young to be given any kind of
money at all I definitely didn't see it
as a way of being suddenly responsible
and going making proper music I'd send
them an email saying we glow to money
because we're going to go to Europe we
just need a camera we're just going to
go around all these amazing places gonna
come back with this like two hour long
epic sure and then obviously we got
dropped and that had been five six years
of us touring and making these records
that we didn't really love we were just
doing it because it wasn't Wales and it
still seemed like to some degree we were
living out our adventure but I don't
think it was how we wanted it to be I
remember the same week as getting
dropped from that label and thinking it
was all over I just thought if this was
the last record I ever get to make what
does it sound like
we were always strong with a pistol and
I just started making it in my bedroom
it was like going straight back to when
I first started making music I wasn't
doing it because somebody is planning to
I just started making music because I
love music and that's when I started
hearing back out of the speakers what I
wanted to hear and it was like of course
and start being honest and you get like
honesty back
[Music]
it just got into my head as soon as the
record was finished I think I want to
move to America I didn't I didn't know a
single human and for someone with who
has always had quite bad social anxiety
what a great idea
two entirely different continent where I
don't know anyone that'll help so I did
that and when I arrived in New York it
was amazing at first but New York is
also a total playground for anyone who
doesn't have anywhere to be at 9:00 in
the morning and already has a drinking
problem
so for me New York sent me quite quickly
into a spiral in the routine of being up
all night every night in and out of bars
that carried on and got more and more
and worse and worse with every tour it's
amazing what you can convince yourself
is reasonable behavior
I was drinking at 8 o'clock in the
morning just to do a radio interview you
turn up to a venue in a city you've
never been to you walk straight into a
dressing room and there's a bucket full
of alcohol for you waiting there
you've got however many hours to kill so
the first thing you're gonna do is start
drinking and that's at 3 o'clock in the
afternoon and that's day 2 of tour maybe
you're on tour for the next 30 days
solidly we were basically on tour for
two years so I would drink a lot of
alcohol before I went on stage I've
actually never done a show without doing
that you are now to play
let alone comes you are now to play let
alone comes you I got sober halfway
through making a new record almost
exactly 10 months ago you know some
people that I love told me enough was
enough
you know I was going to drink myself to
death for a while when I first got sober
it was hard enough to go outside in my
house the thought of meeting someone who
speaking to them was insane so standing
on a stage and being vulnerable and
singing and sharing your innermost
feelings is terrifying
[Music]
45 minutes Pete's gonna go on we're
gonna go upstairs to see I was doing
apparently super nervous wait he
panicked is really panic I'm
excited though I really am we've been
rehearsing I think I think it's gonna be
art and and you know what it's all right
if it is that's the beauty of sobriety
to me is I'm not Superman yes I can be
nervous and scared and if I have a panic
attack in the middle of the show then
that's what will happen and I'm not
gonna die and and I can walk off and
come back on and it'll be all right and
that's that's the beauty it's going to
be all right no matter what happens it
all be all right
[Music]
[Applause]
people are destinations and serendipity
leads the way we met Pete about a month
ago and we realized that he has been
living the Esch theory way longer than
we have
he came from a really dark place and
tonight is his comeback show that's be
here for him let's show him as much love
as we possibly can upon the Mount
I can see all that we've been punching
[Music]
I'm
we love the mountain
I can see all
[Music]
[Applause]